it's a little bit odd for me to kick off
this video because I'm aware that a few
people are going to watch it who've
never seen any other video on my channel
because this video does discuss NPD
narcissistic personality disorder and I
hope to discuss it in a meaningful way
with some sensitivity and with some
depth on the other hand I know that
people are going to be clicking on this
video who are regular viewers of my
channel who probably have no specific
interest in NPD narcissistic personality
disorder and they instead want to hear
me talk about the film that I'm linking
to in the description below this video a
film really dealing with narcissism why
it matters why it is so troubling for us
to think about in terms of recent events
within veganism as a movement now great
reckon my set here Marty get tech
support why it matters so much in
veganism why it's something important
for us to think about in terms of the
internal politics within veganism in
2017 and beyond look guys the main
compliment I want to give to the video
among you to hear video by noir vegan
over an hour-long in-depth discussion
part one of a three-part documentary and
full disclosure I have had email back
and forth this guy ignore vegan he asked
me for some screenshots you asked me
what happened in various times and to my
knowledge part 2 and part 3 of this
documentary series is going to talk a
lot more about me and what I've been
doing in the vegan movement last couple
years um the biggest most important
compliment I can give this video is that
I know for a fact it reached its target
audience it reached its intended
audience the message he was delivering
got to the people whom he wanted to hear
it and it got to the people who really
needed to hear it now this is a
backhanded compliment because the fact
is I am not really that audience I'm not
the kind of guy who needs to hear this
I've got email from Chiang Mai and
people saying look you know groups of
vegans in Chiang Mai sat down and
watched this video about narcissism
about MPD about the psychological
factors that are linked to political
questions we have in veganism today they
watched it and for them it was stunning
it was
Hakan it was a whole new perspective on
what's been going on in veganism last
couple years and also the particular
examples the particular case studies
we're going to say particulars of
evidence employed were really shocking
and new to them so that's very positive
I'd say I say that just as a complement
to the filmmaker tun or vegan that he
really did a good job he reached the
people who he wanted to reach and the
people needed to hear it now for me it's
a little bit over overly familiar right
he's like most of the facts he's
striking out almost all that I've kind
of heard it before I feel I've heard it
too many times a lot of it stuff I don't
want to talk about it or deal with
anymore etc and oddly that's the case
for me both with the the case study the
issues in veganism and with these
arguments linked to narcissism and NPD
narcissists of a narcissistic
personality disorder
certainly define look guys I have known
several people whom I believe did have
narcissistic personality disorder just
one to my knowledge was formerly
diagnosed with the disorder you know
psychiatric establishment by psychiatric
professionals if you have met someone
with this disorder it's unlikely they
have been diagnosed and then if they
have been diagnosed it may be incredibly
difficult to get them to admit that
they've been diagnosed as you can guess
even from the name of the disorder
people who are narcissists in this sense
people who are diagnosed with
narcissistic personality disorder are
quite reluctant to admit something as
humiliating and disempowering to you as
that they have a really serious
psychological problem they have a
personality disorder of this kind and it
is still just not that commonly
diagnosed it's difficult to diagnose I'm
going to get into a little bit and my
main reservation in endorsing this video
by noir vegan which is in many ways a
great video link provided I hope you all
see it and you know watch as much or as
little as you like um my main
reservation is something that he
addresses himself within the first ten
minutes of the video he talks about the
extent to which this word narcissism has
become diluted and diluted it's become
an all
most meaningless insult it's become a
general category of bad behavior and
more and more stuff is just flung into
this category whatever people dislike
about somebody whatever they want to
complain about just get categorized as
narcissism and from my perspective
that's a dangerous tendency given that
NPD narcissistic personalities are given
that it is actually in the class of
personality disorders that as we examine
it more and more as we study it
scientifically more and more it actually
becomes realer and realer what do I mean
by that some concepts in psychology came
to be regarded with greater and greater
skepticism over time is psychopathy
something with medical reality or is it
really just a cultural concept or even a
kind of stereotype that were applying to
human behavior that really is unrelated
and doesn't fall into one category and
is certainly not a medical condition
within my lifetime I'm 38 years old I've
actually seen Psychopaths go through
different fads and phases there were
periods of time when it seemed like the
consensus was that no it was not a
medically valid term at all there were
periods of time when people felt they
had mustered together enough evidence to
really take this seriously as a medical
condition and just in the last five
years I would say the pendulum swung
back the other way and more and more it
seems like the scientific perspective is
that no this is a pattern of behavior
but there's no medical reality there's
no biological reality to it there's no
sense in which it is a real
psychological problem any more that we
can group together any other bunch of
human characteristics traits or
behaviors and then describe them as a
personality type by contrast I'm going
to give you a link below this video to a
formal scientific article involving MRI
scan so brain scans magnetic resonance
imaging scans of the brain of people
with narcissistic personality disorder
MPD and this is a first step towards the
thesis that NPD really does exist in the
sense of a
abnormalities I am not saying to you
that this is an open-and-shut case I'm
not saying that the scientific research
is finished and over I think it's at a
very preliminary stage however if you
have met several different people with
NPD the extent to which their behaviors
and symptoms are similar is mind-blowing
you feel like you're meeting the same
person again you can't believe that the
same extremely idiosyncratic irrational
it just weird behavior that you thought
was so unique about this one person the
first version of MPD that you're
discovering it again in another person
from another culture another walk of
life totally different experience you
know speaks with a different accent
and yet you're seeing this same pattern
manifest itself I feel that the video
bun or vegan it falls into a trap that
it's set for itself because in the intro
it says look we can't just treat
narcissism as a category for all the
things we dislike about a person we
can't just say here are a bunch of bad
traits throw them together and start
talking to the stereotypes and yet the
video as a whole and over our long I
think does fall into that trap it does
indulge in a great deal of that in
quoting from these other YouTube
channels reflecting on it one of the
most important observers of NPD is a
youtuber named Sam Vaknin
he's also published books and articles
he is diagnosed with MPD himself and he
devoted a large part of his life to
studying and really philosophizing about
what narcissistic personality disorder
is how to understand it how to explain
it to people and I think that none of
the discussion in nor vegans video talks
about the fragility that from my
perspective is at the core of MPD now
I'm going to make this as anonymous as
possible one person who might know why
as far as I can be sure of anything one
person my know to have MPD sat down with
another person it's a person a and
person B sat down at the table and
person a was presenting an academic
paper he had written to person B
and person a after presenting his paper
sat there it's a grown man fully grown
adult and in a manner that would seem
trial dish and shocking for anyone over
eleven years of age maybe would even be
surprising with an eight-year-old sat
there and said my paper did you read it
isn't the most brilliant thing you've
ever seen isn't it brilliant isn't it
genius isn't it fantastic and absolutely
any answer other than it's brilliant
it's genius it's fantastic would result
in him having a kind of emotional
collapse on the spot and him becoming
crestfallen Sam Vaknin talks about this
a lot in terms of narcissistic supply he
talks about the extent to which people
with MPD rely on external sources of
validation external source of
affirmation confirmation constantly that
they're reaching out for narcissistic
supply as he as he called it something
to confirm their sense of worth the
sense of their they're good enough and
I'll tack on an observation my own here
having spent time with people with MPD
that is a pattern that I can understand
and relate to only from incredibly early
childhood memories I think if you can
remember yourself at about age four you
can probably remember what it was like
to look around the world in a slightly
off-balance disoriented way you can't
fully understand even the language
people using when you're four you know
grown-ups use grown-up words you're only
following half of what they're saying
and of just looking around nervously
trying to get confirmation that you're
doing the right thing even that you're
in the right place you know you're four
years old you're disoriented I really
see several of the personality disorders
personnel disorders census or do you I
see them in many ways as being a
manifestation of early childhood
characteristics is still being present
later in adult life and it's this
shockingly childish vulnerability
neediness reaching out for affirmation
that's what's there all the time for
people who genuinely have NPD
and it's misleading to examine the
condition in terms of grandiosity in
terms of the lies they tell in terms of
Randy OHS behavior which not all the map
by the way some people with MPD are very
self adhering I mean you know some
people with MPD are charming and some
are not some are storytellers and some
are taciturn some use their physical
bodies and their physical appearance to
try to get affirmation from other people
and so on actually the ways in which the
disorder manifests itself the way in
which people act out these these tropes
is quite a lot of variety but I think
the bedrock of the condition is that
terrible sense of vulnerability they
have all the time and it's telling I
mean Sam Vaknin himself is reflected on
this there are other types of mania
let's just say there are other types of
ego mania where the maniac is happy you
know if you're an egomaniac in the
simplest sense maybe you just have
tremendous confidence in your own worth
everything you're doing with your life
what have you um people with MPD you
really can't understand them at all if
you don't understand the extent to which
their lives are really nightmarish
they're in a constant state of nying
self-doubt uncertainty misery childlike
need for someone to Pat them on the head
and tell them that what they're doing is
good and right what they need above all
else is to be told that they're an
exception to the rules that they're
exceptional one of the classic symptoms
of MPD is that when they show up at the
psychiatrist's office for you know a
consultation or evaluation rather may be
that they start bullying the secretary
at the front of the office into making
an exception for the rules to schedule
when the alarm is going to be and normal
adults just don't do that
and of course secretaries and offices
that the old fueled MPD you know it
happens again and again so they learn to
kind of smile and throw their shoulders
at it but again it's not just bullying
it's not just narcissism it's not ego
mania in that sense well you understand
it's from their perspective they feel
this desperate need
for some kind of recognition or
affirmation from the secretary and
they're trying to get that by forcing
the secretary to make an exception to
the scheduling rules so the secretary
will say you're special you're different
from the others we're going to make an
exception in your case and again maybe
at four years old maybe at eight years
old you dig around in your earliest
memories maybe you can find something
like that where you felt that way it's a
little kid you want it to know you
weren't just another face in the crowd
but people at MPD I feel really never
move on to the sense of self-reliance
self-confidence that most of us as
adults take for granted where we on a
very deep level just do not care what
the secretary making important slip-ups
we don't care if we're just another name
on a list of just another face in the
crowd or if we do care we have other
more constructive ways to try to
exercise our egos know what have you I
wish I could say that NPD is a minor
foot down in my life that it's something
I'm never going to have to deal with
again to be honest with you this is a
rare condition it is rare and yet it is
one of the personality disorders that in
our society people can get ahead with
you can meet people who've risen to high
levels of fame and prominence and just
high levels of professional team with it
I think I will encounter people with MPD
again and the hardest thing about making
this judgment if you were actually
trying to diagnose people with MPD I
think in principle it is impossible to
diagnose someone with MPD so long as
they can edit the videos that they are
uploading themselves almost by
definition all of the evidence that
someone really has MPD that terrible
vulnerability and so I've got terrible
neediness that's exactly what would
never show up in a video they have the
power to edit themselves that's exactly
what they never disclose whereas if you
know someone with MPD face to face in
the workplace in your own family what
have you then that's what's most
striking or over time you understand
that to be the key to how they see the
world
I have had people writing to me many
times over the last several years asking
me if other specific vegans on YouTube
other specific vegan political leaders
if they have NPD and writing back them
with all due honesty though I really
have them quite a lot of research on MPD
because of known people with the
condition I have to read back them no
keeping it all the way real I don't know
I can't know and I think you also can't
know unless you spend time with that
person face to face in real life and on
the other hand NPD it's striking if you
really spent quality time with one
person as the condition how much they
resemble in their behaviors and their
applications in their or paranoid
excesses how much they resemble other
people with the condition but I
absolutely would not make that judgment
on the basis of YouTube videos okay guys
so again this is in some ways just shout
out for the three-part documentary
series by noir vegan you're going to
find the link below this video
and I just say it's not what I created
this channel for but I am knowledgeable
at MPD as it happens and it may well be
that if you guys in patreon or otherwise
want to carry on this discussion with me
I certainly could make more videos
talking about the disorder how I've
encountered it and perceived it in my
own life the ways in which it matters
and I mean even the prospect in the
future is there any treatment is the way
to help people because if you have
people in your own life of MPD you must
ask yourself all the time what can I do
to help and the vast majority of the
literature both medical literature
autobiographical literature just
anecdotal literature it comes to
conclusions there is absolutely nothing
you can do to help that the only thing
that you can do is walk away but
ultimately human beings MPD are still
human beings they still do have the
power to change in meaningful ways they
have the power to become vegan and the
power to try to make a positive
difference in the world stead of a
negative difference and if you check out
the YouTube channel of Sam back then
even though he still struggles with MPD
he struggles with the effect of the
disorder day after day he is also an
example of someone who became aware that
he had the disorder tried to work around
it try to despite that disorder do
something positive
the world something positive for his
fellow man and I am out